This article is a full-text version of a supplement to Blood Advances First Edition, published 30 September 2024. Injected hRBCs survive longer in engrafted HMOX-1–/– mice than in HMOx-1+/+ controls. These mice have the potential to be used for hematologic disease modeling, and for testing therapeutic treatments for hR BC diseases. HIS mice engrafted with HSCs do not have human red blood cells (hRBCs) present in the blood. Immature human reticulocytes can develop in the bone marrow of HIS mice, but they are rapidly destroyed upon egress from the BM. All experiments were 5976 PATEL et al 10 DECEMBER 2024 • VOLUME 8, NUMBER 23 conducted in compliance with the Regeneron Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee protocols. Human fetal liver (FL) samples used for isolating human CD34+ HSCs were obtained from Advanced Biosciences Resources (Alameda, CA) with appropriate informed consent. Mice were bled daily until day 8 after injection, and blood was collected in phosphate- buffered saline (PBS) + 5-mM EDTA for counting. Liver and kidney sections were stained with a Prussian Blue kit. Fibrosis was scored on Masson’s trichome–stained sections using a semiquantitative grading scale. Mouse and human CD45+ cell fractions were collected from the spleens of hHSC-engrafted mice. The Hmox1 gene was deleted on mouse chro- mosome 8 C1, between coordinates chr8 75093750 and 75100019 (GRCm38 assembly) to create the targeting vector. The vector was electroporated into mouse ES cells with humanized SIRPα, humanized M-CSF, and humanized CD47. F0 mice were bred to homozygosity for all alleles. HMOX-1–/– and HMOx-1+/+ mice were engrafted with hHSCs, and the development of a HIS was analyzed. Mice were intrahepatically engrafted with hHSCs. At 12 weeks after engraftment, mice were examined for total circulating hCD45+ cells (human leukocytes) in the peripheral blood and BM. Flow cytometric analysis showed a reduction in murine macro- phages without a loss of overall murine monocytes in HMOX-1–/– mice. Levels of human CD3+ T cells, CD19+ B cells, NKp46+ NK cells, and CD14+ myeloid cells were increased in the spleen of engrafted mice. HMOX-1–/– MSRG47 mice were intrahepatically engrafted with hHSCs. At 12 weeks after engraftment, mice were bled retro-orbitally to examine the level of hRBCs in peripheral blood before being injected intraperitoneally with 100 units of hEPO. Engrafted mice had larger spleens due to more immune cells. HMOX-1 deletion leads to the loss of speciﬁc murine macrophage subsets that are most associated with erythrophagocytosis. This leads to a HIS model that permits the study of hRBCs in mice. Unlike genetic deletions that ablate all murine myeloid cells, which have deleterious effects on mouse development,19 HMOx-1 deletions do not require further manipulations. HIS models with humanized M-CSF have a high attrition rate. This is believed to be due to anemia resulting from the murine RBCs being phagocytosed by human macrophages. CD47, the ligand for SIRPα that triggers a “don’t- eat-me signal,” is also humanized to mitigate the anemia. There is evidence that human macrophages in the HMOX-1–/– HIS mice are compensating for the loss of murine erythryophagocytic macrophage population. Secondary byproducts may be produced in the blood of HMOx-1-/– mice (increased ferritin, bilirubin, etc) that may have deleterious effects on phagocytic human Macrophages. Human erythroblast reconstitution still remains relatively too low to comprehensively assess function and ontogenetic devel- opment. In vivo models of malaria have been impeded by the lack of hRBCs in mouse models. Humanized mouse model supports development of human natural killer cells and could be used to test human-speciﬁc immune-modulatory drugs.