Recent advances in cancer immunotherapy have reignited interest in targeted monoclonal antibodies for immunotherapy. Despite considerable efforts, some therapeutic antibodies have been linked to dose-limiting side effects.  Immunotherapy using IgG monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) and immune checkpoint inhibitors has emerged as an impor- tant approach in the current cancer treatment regimen. IgG antibodies can activate immune responses by engaging with Fc gamma receptors (FcγRs), thereby inducing ADCC and ADCP. Despite the promising therapeutic benefits of IgG mAbs, side effects are common. IgA antibodies have demonstrated compara- ble Fab-binding characteristics as their IgG counterparts. IgA can activate Fc-dependent effector functions, such as ADCC and ADCP, albeit by interacting with other immune cells and Fc receptors. The primary receptor for IgA is FcαRI (CD89), which is predominantly expressed on neutrophils, eosinophils, monocytes, and mac- rophages. We hypothesized that IgA may require higher antigen expression levels than IgG for the induction of effective ADCC. IgG1 human engineered ING-1 (heING1, anti-EpCAM), IgA3.0 heING1 and mCD20 abs were all produced and affinity purified in-house using the previously described method [48]. antibodies were produced via transient transfection of ExpiCHO- S cells (Thermo Fisher Scientific) Subsequently, the antibody-containing supernatant was subjected to affin- ity chromatography. Human polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNs) and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were isolated from peripheral blood from healthy donors at the UMC Utrecht. PMNs and PBMCs were co-cultured with the labeled target cells at effector-to-target (E:T) ratios of 40:1 and 100:1, respectively. Antibodies were added at the speci- fied concentrations for each experiment. All mice ranged in age from 8 to 26 weeks at the time of the experiment. Tumors were measured using bioluminescence imaging (BLI) after 4 days. Treatment groups were randomized based on tumor size, with treatment beginning on day 5. B cell depletion was determined at different time points in blood, liver, spleen, lymph nodes and bone marrow by flow cytometry analysis.  HER2 expression levels are important in determining the course of immunotherapy treatment for breast can- cer patients. Only a score of 3 + is considered HER2-positive, leading to treatment with trastuzumab (hereafter IgG HER2) We selected four cell lines, each of which corresponded to one of the four HER2 scores. All four cell line were tested in a 4-h 51Cr release assay using PBMCs as effector cells to induce IgG-mediated killing. Blocking the CD47/SIRPα axis enhances IgA‑mediated ADCC capacity in breast cancer cell lines. Both IgG HER2 and IgA HER2 induced killing of SK-BR-3 (3 +) cells. In contrast, IgA Her2 did not significantly induce any kill- ing against MDA-MB-453. We introduced HER2 into HEK293T cells under the control of a Tet-On inducible promoter to examine the effect of HER2 expression levels on antibody-mediated cytotoxicity. In the presence of doxycycline (dox), the reverse transcriptional activator (rtTA) binds to the promoter, allowing HER2 transcription (Fig. 2A and B) Induced Her2 expression was quantified using QIFIKIT and the expression levels were correlated with the antibody- mediated cytotoxic- ity measured in a 51Cr release ADCC assay. IgG HER2 induced PBMC-mediated killing of HEK 293T-HER2-Low cells at a HER2. expression level of 9.5 × ­103, peaking at around 20% lysis when the HER2 mol- ecules per cell reached approximately 7.6 × ­104. IgA antibodies require a higher level of antigen expression to effi- ciently induce ADCC. The antigen level threshold of IgA is influenced by the CD47‑SIRPα axis. To validate these findings, we introduced HER2 expres- sion into another cell line, MDA-MB-231. Lysis was enhanced from 3 × ­105 HER2 molecules per cell onwards. As antigen expression levels increased, IgA-mediated lysis outperformed IgG- mediated lysis. IgA with CD47 blockade did not enhance specific lysis, in contrast to IgG combined withCD47 blockade, which did improve lysis at higher antigen levels. In a mouse model, we injected 1 × ­105 A431-luc2 cells intraperitoneally into SCID mice. Mice received treatment starting from day 5, with either 2 mg/kg IgG HER2 once a week. IgA selectively targets lymphoma cells without affecting endogenous B cells. We considered that the absence of IgA-mediated cytotox- icity in cells expressing lower antigen levels may present an important clinical advantage. Healthy cells often express similar antigens as those commonly targeted on tumors, albeit usually at significantly lower expression levels. Injecting IgG antibody led to rapid depletion of B cells, with a noticeable effect as early as day 1. In contrast, IgA treatment did not deplete B cells and showed no significant impact throughout the 7-day period. IgA proved to be highly effective in suppressing tumor growth in BCL-1 tumor-bearing mice. In our A431 xeno- graft mouse model, we observed an anti-tumoral response with IgG therapy but not with IgA therapy against the low HER2-expressing A431-luc2 tumor. The difference in antigen sensitivity between IgG and IgA may be explained by the distinct mechanisms of action of their respective effector immune cells. This dis- tinction could be strategically used in the clinic to use IgA against ubiquitously expressed targets. Next-generation therapies like the anti- body–drug conjugate T-DXd have shown remarkable effi- cacy in breast cancer. EpCAM, being a highly expressed antigen in adenocarcinomas, is a desirable target. However, a vast majority of healthy tissues also express EpCam, particularly in the gastrointestinal tract. High-affinityEpCAM-targeting antibodies. have shown dose-limiting side effects, including pancreatitis.  depletion of endogenous B cells was monitored following a single dose of PBS, 5 mg/kg murine afucosylated IgG2a mCD20, or 5mg/kg human IgA-Alb8 mCD 20 in CD89 Tg Balb/c mice. The percentage of B cells, compared to the PBS vehicle control, was measured in blood, spleen, liver, bone marrow, and lymph nodes. IgA did not affect healthy circulating B cells but demonstrated a significant anti-tumor response in mice. IgG did not show any anti- tumors response at all. The difference in response between IgG and IgA is partly due to the over- expression of CD47. IgA holds the potential to reduce on-target off- tumor side effects, which are sometimes associated with IgG therapy. The engineered IgA3.0 antibody has been optimized for production and purification, making it ready for clinical translation and therapeutic use. Trastuzumab deruxtecan in previously treated HER2-low advanced breast can- cer. Am J Cardiol. (2011) early detection and prediction of cardiotoxicity in chemotherapy-treated patients.