An engineered CD300a agonist ligand (CD300a TASR) universally protects HLA-deﬁcient allogeneic T cells from NK cell–mediated rejection. A model allogeneIC T-cell therapy coexpressing an anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) exhibited enhanced B-cell killing potency. T-cell targets are engineered for knockout (KO) by CRISPR/Cas9 and knockin (KI) by nonviral homology-directed repair (HDR) HLA-A2 alloreactive T (allo-T) cell clones are generated by orthotopic T-cell receptor α and β (TCRαβ) replacement as previously described. Cryopreserved NK cells are thawed and cultured in Rh10p + 10 ng/mL IL-15 for 3 to 5 days before the start of coculture. Cryopreserved peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) are thawed, assessed for phenotype by ﬂow cytometry, and rested overnight in Rh10p + 40 ng/mL IL-2. 30 000 HDR-edited T cells are plated with PBMCs at various E:T ratios in a 96-well ﬁat-bottom plate for 3 days. T-cell survival is determined using the following antibody staining mix. We used CRISPR/Cas9-mediated KO of the B2M gene. We cocul- tured target T cells from HLA-A2+ serotyped donors with effector alloreactive T cells engineered to express a known TCR. We measured the fold change in T-cell survival relative to noncloaked negative control using the IC50 value. We applied this experimental system to rapidly screen previously published “cloaking” strategies known to inhibit NK cell cytotoxicity. We screened TASRs via mRNA electroporation of B2M KO primary T cells for expression and functional potency against human primary NK cells derived from 1 donor. NKG2A TASR agonizes the same target as HLA-E, whereas CD300a is an unexplored target for this application. An optimized version 2, con- taining no hinge but stabilized by the mouse B7-1 cytoplasmic tail, exhibited enhanced function. Figure 3A,C shows the identity and frequency of each T-cell member based on antibody staining of the cloaking ligand. T cells expressing the indicated ligands were pooled in equal ratios and challenged with NK cells and HLA-A2 alloreactive T cells. CD300a TASR emerged as the dominant survivor when chal- lenged with both NK and allo-T cells. CD300a TASR and HLA-E, the most potent alternative, were assessed against a large human cohort. CD300a protected B2M KO T cells against all PBMC donors tested (45/45), indicating universal protection against NK cell reactivity. CMV serostatus emerged as the most Figure 1 variants. NK cells were cultured in 10 ng/mL IL-15, whereas resting NK cells are thawed, rested overnight, and cocultured in the absence of exogenous cytokines. HLA-E lost protection with increasing frequencies of adaptive NK cells, but CD300a TASR maintained pro- tection. Allo-T cells express TCRαβ speciﬁc for either minor histocompatibility antigen 2 (HA-2) or EMC7 peptide. Target T cells are serotyped HLA-A2+, and effector cells are HLA A2−. To model CAR T-cell function under a physiological allogeneic environment, we dosed our engineered CAR T cells into PBMCs and measured killing of CD19-expressing B cells. CD300a TASR universally protects against NK cell alloreactivity. T cells are engineered to coexpress cloaking transgene and RQR8 via 2A self-cleaving peptide under control of EF1α promoter by nonviral HDR. We expect the B-cell lysis model to be relevant for allogeneic CAR T-cell therapy against lupus erythematosus. CD300a TASR enhances CAR T-cell functional potency under allogeneic immune pressure. The functionality of TASr is determined by determined by the functionality of the CAR-T survival factor. Antibody cross-linking studies have also demonstrated Src homol- ogy region 2 domain-containing phosphatase 1 (SHP-1) and 2 ( SHP-2) recruitment to immunoreceptor tyrosine–based inhibitory motifs. Despite attempts to reinstate KIR agonism after HLA-I ablation, none of the KIR-targeting TASR clones in our screen demonstrated efﬁcacy. It is possible that our anti-KIR scFVs lack intrinsic agonistic activity or cross reacts with both inhibitory and activating KIRs. Given global CMV seroprevalence rates of 43% to 96% by country, we expect CD300a TasR to expand the addressable patient popu- lation by 22% to 48%. The interaction between CD300a and phosphatidylserine inhibits tumor cell killing by NK cells. The inhibitory receptor IRp60 (CD300a) is expressed and functional on human mast cells.